# OrangeCrab Development Setup

This project contains some demo applications for targeting the [OrangeCrab FPGA r0.2.1](https://orangecrab-fpga.github.io/orangecrab-hardware/docs/r0.2.1) in combination with the OrangeCrab Pmod / Debug Expander board and an [Adafruit FT232H JTAG Debugger](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-ft232h-breakout).

It can to be used as a rapid prototyping template or as a starter for larger project setups.

## Prerequisites
The project requires `yosys`, `nextpnr`, and `prjtrellis`. If you have `nix` installed, you can run `nix develop` to automatically pull in the tools. Otherwise, you will need to install them yourself.

## Build Architecture

The setup uses a combination of `cabal` and `make`, where
* `cabal` is used to handle everything Haskell / Clash related up till the point of generating HDL via running the `clash` compiler itself, and
* `make` is used to run `clash`, RTL synthesis, Place and Route, and for programming the FPGA.

### Cabal

In terms of Haskell / Clash package management, everything is fairly standard. Have a look at the [`orangecrab.cabal`](orangecrab.cabal) and the [`cabal.project`](cabal.project) files for the particular details.

### Make

A straightforward [`Makefile`](Makefile) is used on top of `cabal` to handle any additional calls which are not covered by the cabal build system yet.

#### Configuration

The `Makefile` includes the additional configuration file [`build.cfg`](build.cfg), which can be used to link all of the required external build tools. To this end, simply copy the file to `build.cfg.local` on your local machine and modify it towards your personal needs. Any changes made to the copy will be preferred in comparison to original `build.cfg`. Just leave out the overrides, if you like to stick with the defaults instead.

Some references on where to get all of the required external tooling are also given as part of the configuration file.

The particular top entity to be built can be selected via overriding the `NAME` parameter in the `build.cfg.local`. Just set it to the name of the file in the `src` directory shall be built (without the `.hs` ending). See the `Makefile` for the pre-configured default.

#### Usage

The `Makefile` offers the follwing targets (to be invoked via `make TARGET`) where each command depends on the output generated by all of the former ones according to the order of the list below. The `bitstream` target is the `make` default.

| TARGET      | Description                                         |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `hdl`       | generates Verilog code from the selected TopEntity  |
| `synth`     | runs RTL synthesis                                  |
| `netlist`   | runs Place and Route                                |
| `bitstream` | generates a bitstream to be transferred to the FPGA |
| `upload`    | copies the generated bitstream to FPGA              |

The output of each target is stored in a corresponding sub-directory within an automatically created `_build` folder. Use `make clean`, if you like to rebuild everything in the `_build` folder from scratch (`make clean` does **not** run `cabal clean`).

## Demo Applications

### Blink

Simple blinking example using the RGB LED on the OrangeCrab r0.2.1 board. Running `make upload` should flash the orangecrab with the example.

